to set up search:

add these to your gem files. active_data is used for tableless models for the search interface.

  gem 'chewy'
  gem 'active_data', github: 'pyromaniac/active_data'

add chewy.rb to your initializers with Chewy.logger = Rails.logger.

create a chewy.yml with localhost config

  test:
    host: 'l:9200'
    prefix: 'test'
  development:
    host: 'l:9200'

create search directory inside your app for a multi-indexed search class. call it whatever you want + _search.rb

this will define your search, and here you can include sorting and searching filters. you can set up post_filters
and rescoring for more exact indexing. rescoring is executed on a specific shard before returning results to
be sorted by the node.

you define your index inside the chewy directory (also within the app).

call it the same as the search + _index.rb

specify index-specific settings here for sorting and analyzing. define your model searches.


setup on Ubuntu:

wget -O - http://packages.elasticsearch.org/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -

paste
deb http://packages.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/1.0/debian stable main
in your /etc/apt/sources.list

apt-get update && apt-get install elasticsearch

sudo service elasticsearch [force-reload, restart, start, status, stop]
check url:9200 to see if it's running

should respond with json.


references:
http://github.com/toptal/chewy
http://www.toptal.com/ruby-on-rails/elasticsearch-for-ruby-on-rails-an-introduction-to-chewy
http://github.com/toptal/chewy_example/
